All right, so first of all,
let's close this and then
make sure that you have reviewed us.
Your review is truly important
for Udemy.
And without the reviews,
the Udemy course don't grow much.
That's why I'm reminding you
again and again, I don't like
it, but I have to do it.
All right, so the next topic that we
are going to work is dictionary.
So why does dictionary exist?
Once you understand the meaning
of it, then you'll be probably okay.
That okay, why this exist?
So so far whatever we have seen,
like for example, we
have seen the list exist.
The whole point of list
being existing here.
So for example, let's just
say we choose Ginger and we choose
Lemon and all of this.
There is no way of pointing
out that hey, where is Lemon?
Or is this.
What type of this?
So in order to address any one
of them, we have indexing system.
So we have zero and then we
have one just like this.
So we have a zero.
Come on, don't do it like this.
So we have indexing based on this.
So we have this zero here.
And if we have one here just
like this in no matter what
happens, I have to always
call this from the number zero.
This one always from the number one.
But it would be really nice that
if you have something which is
named based indexing, I can
call it as something like name.
Or for example you are using
or you are storing another
things in the database.
For example, I want to call
this as Hitesh and I want
to call this one as my last name.
So there should be a way
that I should call it as.
Instead of 0 and 1 I should
be able to call this
I don't like this one here.
I would love to call this as
first name and I can point
the first name to this.
It would be super awesome.
And that's exactly what
dictionary does it.
It gives you named argument.
You can actually store the data
just like this.
But each data will be pointed
through the name instead
of the zeros and one.
That is all.
That is all your dictionary is about.
And why do you go like this?
There we go, dictionary.
So let's go ahead and code it out.
It's a super simple piece of code.
We will call this one as chapter 10.
Py quite far, isn't it?
In the journey.
And I think we should rename this
bothers me a little bit.
Oops, don't want to delete it.
Let's rename this and I want
to call this one as chapter 10.
Okay, so how do we have
a dictionary in us.
So first of all let me close this
and let's just say you
have chiorder and you want
to store them in the dictionary.
You call dictionary just like
this, then a parenthesis
because it's a function.
And then you simply define that.
Hey, the type is going to be
this one is masala chai.
And then we want another one.
We have size
and the size could be large.
What else information
you want to store?
Maybe sugar information, how
much sugar you want to have.
So there we go.
Now this actually makes
my list much easier.
This is still list,
but it is a dictionary.
So it's a dictionary list
and I can store my information,
which gives me much more idea.
And I'm pretty sure you are
wondering how does it look
like when we print this up?
Always remember in the dictionary
order doesn't really matter.
Masala chai could be first or sugar
could also be first because we
reference the element by their name.
So we're going to call this
one as chai order just like this
and we'll say chai order.
Let's go ahead and print this out.
So we'll just go ahead
and say this one is one.
There we go.
So we can see we have the chai order.
Then we have type, masala, chai,
size, sugar and all of them.
This is much better of information.
Now let me walk you through more
of how we add the data.
Accessing data.
This is just a brief overview of it.
Let me go in depth of this now.
So for example, we
have a chai recipe.
Recipe.
There we go.
We have chai recipe and in this
we have an empty dictionary.
This is another way
of creating the dictionary.
If you have data, use dict or you
can use this curly braces as well.
But this is the most common way.
Now in each of this chai recipe
I want to add more data.
The way how we add the data is
by square brackets.
Then name your key.
This will be my key.
So this key name is, let's just say
base and then value, that I want
to add here is going to be black T.
This is exactly same the way
we call it as type or
maybe size or maybe sugar.
This is exactly what
we are doing here.
Base the value.
Like it could be masala chai, it
could be large, it could be two.
The same as here the black T.
That is it.
Now let's just say we want
to add one more thing,
but this time instead of base.
Otherwise we will overwrite it.
Let's call this one as liquid.
And I want to have
a liquid base of milk.
I don't prefer it, but let's
just say we have it now.
How do we access the data for this?
We'll print this just like this
and we will say recipe
base and I want to access just
the base, not the liquid.
So all I have to do is say chai
recipe and again use the same
mechanism how you added the data.
So there we go.
We add the base again.
Don't worry too much
about the single quotes.
Double quote.
That is totally fine both way.
It is absolutely fine.
If I go ahead and open this up, clean
this and run this notice here we
get the black T, not the whole milk
and everything, just the black T.
This is how you access this.
You can definitely go ahead
and remove some of the data as well.
We use del del to delete any
component inside the dictionary.
So how do we do that?
We simply say, hey, chai recipe
inside you there is known as a,
liquid and I want to just remove it.
You just have to provide
the key to remove it.
That is it.
Now let's just say if we go ahead
and print out the chai recipe, not
the base, I want to print out the
whole and we'll just call this as
recipe and we'll have another one.
So one printout we are doing before
deleting and after deleting
the liquid, we are doing one more
printout to just verify the claim
that we have made just right now.
So we'll clean this up.
There we go.
We have a base black T.
Then we have a liquid
key with the milk.
And now we can see we have just
the base black T because we have
removed, we have removed the liquid.
That is it.
Super simple.
Remember, there's nothing too
much going on in this one.
No surprises, no magic.
And yes, we can also do membership
testing in this one as well.
Whenever there's a data, there's
a list almost everywhere.
When there's a list, however, it
is contained in the square brackets
and curly braces and set.
You can perform membership test.
Let's go ahead and do this.
So we are going to say like this and
we will say is sugar, in the order
you want to test now whether sugar
exists in your very first element,
the chai order, is it available or
not?
So we can do a pretty easy stuff.
We can just go ahead and use
the curly braces
and I will just ask for sugar
in wherever you want to ask.
I want to ask for chai order.
Again, super simple.
We have seen the membership
testing many, many times.
So true, because sugar is
there and no worries at all.
Now there are a lot of things
that you can do with this.
I will actually go ahead
and walk you through with this.
So let's just say we
redefine the chai order.
So I'll just go ahead and have
a new order in this one.
So there we go.
This time the new order
is type ginger chai.
We have a size of medium sugar,
just like we have at the top.
So I've just redefined the new.
It's a new order.
Now we can actually check
what are all the keys, what
are all the values, what
are the full order items.
All of this.
This is something that you will
be doing quite a lot and this
is super easy to work on with.
So I will just go ahead
and say I want to print
and I will say order details.
This time I want
to print the keys only.
So if you want to print just
the keys, it is super simple.
I can just have the chai
order and I have dot.
This gives me all
the things that I can do.
And yes, we have
already seen the pop.
The way how POP works in the list
that exactly how it works
in the dictionary as well.
Items, keys, get from keys.
There's a lot of things.
Update the things.
If you want to update
certain things, values.
All of this when you
simply run the keys.
And again this is a method so
you have to just go ahead
and put parenthesis after it.
You will get all the keys.
What do I mean by keys?
The type is a key,
size is a key, sugar is a key.
And similarly I can get
all the values as well.
So I can just go
ahead and say values.
And again this time we'll say values.
So we have separated them, each one
of them that hey, this will be my
printout for all the keys.
And this will be my printout
for all the values.
If you want to get all the items.
Yes, there is a way or a detail.
I'll just say items
and you guessed it right, there
is items here as well.
Let's go ahead and print it out so
that we can see what's happening.
There we go.
A little bit hard to see, but again,
just pay a little attention.
This is Order details Keys 1,
these are DICT keys.
So dictionary keys.
Again, there is a way how you
extract each one of them.
We have to go through with one
of them known as loop.
But again you get the point.
We are just getting back.
A list means an array
and it has type, size and sugar.
Then in the values notice here,
order detail values, we are
getting values which has
ginger, chai, medium and one.
Pretty nice.
Now when we are getting the order
details in the items
format, then we get all of this.
So we have an array.
Notice the data type.
That is the most important part.
A lot of people study the data type.
Don't focus on the data type.
Don't do that.
So we have a whole
list outside of this.
But inside the list we have a tuple.
We just studied about it.
In the tuple we see a key pair.
The type is ginger chai, the size
is medium and the sugar is one.
So we have a tuple
of each one of them.
And this is really useful.
It's really beautiful.
So let's go ahead and do
a couple of more stuff.
I will just comment this out so you
can select all of them and press
slash so that it gets commented out.
Otherwise it will be
keep on printing.
I don't want it to be.
I don't want to execute this
whole piece.
So I can just use last item
and I can use the chai order
and I can pop an item.
I will just go ahead
and say pop item.
Not just pop, I want
to pop the whole item.
This will obviously remove this
thing, the entirety of the thing.
And you can actually
print this as well.
I will print just like this and I
will say removed last item.
And the value is last item.
There we go.
Similarly, we can actually
pop the sugar level as well.
If you want to pop, some like.
I will give you the example.
I think first let's print this out.
That will be better.
So removed item, sugar is one.
So now in our order
there is no sugar item.
So let's go ahead and use this.
We can actually use it
in quite a lot of ways.
But I think you got the idea.
I should not be confusing you
with more example pop item
just removes the item.
That is it.
Now you can also go ahead
and update certain things as well.
Just like this.
So let's just say I have
a simple and a small example.
I'll just go ahead and bring it
up because don't want to write it.
So let's just say we have spices.
We have previously written this.
No big deal.
We have cardamom.
We have crushed
ginger will be sliced.
So again, key value pair
could be anything.
Key can be anything.
Value could be anything.
Almost anything.
This time my key is just like this,
this one is value again.
So a lot of things can happen.
Now you want to update certain thing.
Maybe, you want to update
extra spices or you want
to update a chai recipe.
Remember we have a chai recipe
which has a base liquid.
Now you have more detail.
So what happens when I go ahead
and say, hey, chai recipe,
I want to go ahead and update you.
And while updating, I'm providing
you these extra spices.
Yeah, that's an interesting
observation to have.
And again, we can just print it out.
So let's just say we simply
go ahead and remove this.
And we will say updated chai recipe.
Updated chai recipe.
Recipe.
There we go.
And we will say chai recipe now.
So this is what we have, chai recipe.
And again, we will investigate
this first, try
to predict what might happen.
That's always a good idea.
Let's go ahead and run this.
And there we go.
Updated chai recipe.
We have a black T, we have cardamom
crushed and we have ginger.
Pretty good.
And if you're wondering, hey,
in the chai recipe,
don't we have the liquid as well?
Don't forget we have
updated the code.
The liquid was removed.
So again, no worries on that.
And we have other things as well.
Like safely getting
the values out of this.
Let's just say we have, we want
to get some of more things.
Let's just say there is a customer
note I want to get out of the order.
But hey, when we design
the order, we have type ginger
size, medium, sugar one.
But there's no such
thing as customer order.
So what will happen if I try to print
this out or I want to get this?
Let's just say I want to get size.
So I'll just go ahead and say size
is going to be equal to or I will
just say better would be chai size.
And you know this already that
from the chai order
I can extract any one of them.
So I'll just extract the size.
And if I try to print this chai
size, that is okay, I will
update the message as well.
Chai size is.
Now focus on this.
This is a good code.
No problem at all.
If I go ahead and print
this out, all good choice.
Size is medium.
But what about if I try to get
something which is not yet there?
Maybe I want to get customer note.
Does customer note exist?
Probably not.
Or maybe customer underscore note.
What happens when I try to grab this?
If I grab this, I crash
my entire application.
It's not working anymore.
So there is a safe way of
getting the values out of this.
So in this case I would use
that hey, in the chai order,
I would like to use a method
that is dot get what it does.
It safely gets whatever
you're trying to get.
For example, I want to grab
a customer note and I will just go
ahead and call this one as note.
We'll still call it as chai size
or I'll change this one as well.
But if I don't get the note,
I mark this as no note.
No note was given to by the customer.
I think instead of the chai
size now it's better
to call it as Customer Note.
And then I can just print
this one as Customer Note.
Customer note is.
And what you will notice that now
the app is not crashing but it's
saying hey, no note was available.
And just to give you an example,
instead of the no note you
can actually provide that
hey, I want to grab the size.
The message doesn't make sense
but you will get the point.
What I'm trying to say that hey,
it's medium so it gets the thing
which you want but it doesn't crash.
Instead of if it doesn't find it.
I can provide the default value
here, which is pretty cool.
I like this approach.
And there are a lot of things that
you can do with the dictionary.
Again you have to read a little bit
of the docs and you
can provide a lot more information
in the dictionary.
And one last note before
we wrap this up video.
All the thing that we
studied in the sets.
Yeah, these all things actually
apply to dictionary as well.
I don't think there is a need
of again kind of redoing the things.
But yes, all the union operation
that you studied and all
these things, yes, they do exist
in the dictionary as well.
I think that is more than
enough information.
No point of doing it again
and again and again.
I hope this lecture was
interesting for you.
You enjoyed the learning
part of the data types.
We will do more operations
on this data type.
Right now we are just studying them.
That okay, this is
another type that exists.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.